

Dear CJS Community:
 
These are difficult times. As journalists, conflict is often the context in which we do our work. But, as Prof. Bruce Shapiro and the Dart Center have articulated for many years now, journalists are not removed from the implications and trauma of the circumstances surrounding us. The war between Israel and Hamas drives home this point. As a global institution, the Columbia Journalism School community includes representatives of a broad array of nationalities, backgrounds and cultures. This means that global currents are local concerns for us.

One definition of a community is a group of people bound by mutual empathy and interests. We have (and welcome) a range of views on Mideast affairs among students, faculty and alumni. But this need not negate our ability to recognize the emotional hardship that these events have imposed upon many of us. Empathy does not require unanimity.
 
Members of our community have been deeply affected by the terrorist attacks in Israel on October 7th. We have witnessed a number of ugly and antisemitic incidents in the surrounding Columbia community and in New York City. Some Jewish students have approached me to describe fear and shock. We also have community members who are suffering because of the civilian deaths in Gaza amid this warfare. Arab and Palestinian students have expressed feelings of alienation and isolation and a sense that they are being viewed with suspicion. Both these communities are experiencing profound and understandable grief.
 
This conflict will not likely be resolved quickly. I am writing with some suggestions for how we might care and learn from each other. As journalists, our primary allegiance is to the facts and the professional protocols that help us discover them. In her October 18th message, President Shafik noted the importance of universities serving as forums where we examine, analyze, debate and discuss the vital issues of the world around us. To that end, and in addition to the programming that has already taken place, we’ve begun organizing events to closely examine the way in which this conflict has been covered and the ways in which it should be covered. In conjunction with the Dart and Li Centers, we will host workshops on trauma-informed reporting and best practices for covering the protests and demonstrations that take place in the city and on the campus itself. We will be in contact as soon as we’ve scheduled those events. 
 
On October 9, Dean Huff sent an email about support groups and resources for those who have been directly or indirectly impacted by the unfolding events in Israel and Gaza. I’m reiterating that information here. Additionally, Dean Keren Yarhi-Milo of the Columbia School of International Public Affairs co-authored with Dean Amaney Jamal of Princeton University  an op-ed in the New York Times that warrants consideration for its suggestions regarding how universities might navigate these trying times. You can find that here.
   
Finally, I am expanding my weekly open hours on Wednesday, November 8th, for any student or students in groups of up to three individuals, who would like to stop by between 10am and 1pm. I welcome the opportunity to engage with you.
 
Sincerely,
Dean Jelani Cobb

1
