Oct 10 – Linda P. Fried (Mailman) – A message of support

Dear Columbia Mailman Community,
Our thoughts are with everyone in our community who is affected by the horrific attack on Israel and the ensuing, devastating violence in Israel and Gaza. Many have lost loved ones; fear for the safety of family and friends; or are now facing tumult in their personal and professional lives. We stand with you and are here to offer help. I know that many of you are reaching out to one another, and it is gratifying to see our community demonstrate compassion, support, and respect during this tragic time.

As President Shafik shared yesterday, the University is working to make sure that community members in the region are safe and to provide support and resources to students, faculty, and staff impacted by the conflict. We will continue to follow this situation as it develops and will share additional information as it becomes available.

The University and Medical Center offer various support services that may be helpful for students, faculty, and staff: 

University Counseling and Psychological Services

COPEColumbia
Students currently abroad may call International SOS and ask to speak to an Enhanced Emotional Support Counselor at (215) 942-8478.

University Health Services

Morningside / Manhattanville Campuses: Columbia Health  
CUIMC Campus: Student Health on Haven  

Columbia Employee Assistance Program: humanresources.columbia.edu/employee-assistance

Office of the University Chaplain: ouc.columbia.edu

Office of Religious Life:  religiouslife.columbia.edu

International Students and Scholars Office: isso.columbia.edu

University Life: universitylife.columbia.edu

If you are facing an issue that is not addressed by the resources above, please reach out to the Office of Student Affairs or the Office of Faculty and Human Resources (msph-hr-fac-affairs@cumc.columbia.edu).

Sincerely,

Linda

Linda P. Fried, MD, MPH (she/her)
Dean and DeLamar Professor of Public Health 
Mailman School of Public Health  
Director, Robert N. Butler Columbia Aging Center 
Senior Vice President, Columbia University Medical Center 
Professor of Epidemiology and Medicine 

