Nov 9 – Greenwell (Univ life) – Reaffirming Our Commitment to Inclusion and Belonging


Dear Students,


This is a stressful time for many in our community given global and national events, midterm season, and individual pressures of daily life. I am writing to remind you to care for yourselves as you care for others and to tap into University resources.


In recent weeks, our community has seen an increase in reports of harassment and discrimination, many of which have been rooted in antisemitism, Islamophobia, and xenophobia. These incidents go directly against our core values of inclusion and belonging. Each of us is a member of this community and has the responsibility to uphold our values and to create a community free from discrimination, harassment, and other forms of bias. This is not work that can or should be done alone; we all must do our part to create a safe and welcoming community, especially during times of crisis. I know many of you are already doing this, and I am grateful to those of you who are able to provide this kind of leadership.


Below are resources should you experience or witness a bias incident, as well as resources to better understand the University’s reporting process and relevant policies. Also included are supportive resources that are available to you.


 
If you have experienced or witnessed a bias incident, report it here.
This page offers more information about bias, the reporting process, and other resources.
Doxing has impacted many in our community, either directly by being doxed or indirectly by instilling fear and intimidation. Doxing violates University policy and will result in disciplinary action. You can learn more about what to do if you are doxed and how to protect yourself against doxing in this guide.


Review student conduct policies. The University is committed to enforcing all policies fairly and thoroughly, which takes time. In compliance with privacy laws, the outcomes of disciplinary proceedings are not shared publicly.
To file a general conduct, discrimination, or harassment complaint please report here.
If you have questions, you can review the Standards of Discipline.
Ask for support, if you need to.


Public Safety Support
Safety Escort Program: A member of the Public Safety team can escort you to nearby locations from our Manhattan campuses during evening hours.
Lionsafe App: Access all Public Safety resources through the app, including requesting emergency services and the Friend Walk feature, which allows you to share your location with a friend in real-time so they can follow your path and trigger a call to emergency services if necessary.


Public Safety Phone Numbers
Morningside:
Main: 212-854-2797, Emergency: 212-854-5555
Manhattanville:
Main: 212-853-3301, Emergency: 212-853-3333
CUIMC:
Main: 212-305-8100, Emergency: 212-305-7979
Lamont-Doherty:
Main: 845-359-2900, Emergency: 845-359-5555


24/7 Counseling/Emotional Support (for students in need of immediate support)
Morningside/Manhattanville: 212-854-2878
CUIMC: 212-305-3400


Counseling Services:
Morningside and Manhattanville students:
Counseling and Psychological Services offers individual counseling, support groups, and drop-in hours.


CUIMC students:
Student Health on Haven offers support sessions, individual counseling, support groups, and access to TELUS Health, which offers 24/7 support via chat and phone in multiple languages—including Hebrew and Arabic. Additional information and resources on coping during times of uncertainty also are available on the Student Health on Haven website.




Support Spaces:
Columbia Health Counseling and Psychological Services is hosting support spaces for Morningside/Manhattanville students. 
Support Space for Students with Family or Friends in Palestine or Lebanon
Wednesdays, 5:00 - 6:15 PM
In-Person


This in-person confidential space is intended to provide comfort and support for students with personal connections to Palestine, who are worried about the safety and well-being of their loved ones there or contending with grief at the loss of friends or relations in the conflict.


To sign up for the group, please email Wardeh Hattab at wch2119@cumc.columbia.edu with the subject line "Support Space for Students with Family or Friends in Palestine or Lebanon.”


Support Space for Students with Family or Friends in Israel
Wednesdays, 12:00 - 1:30 PM
In-Person


This in-person confidential space is intended to provide comfort and support for students with personal connections to Israel, who are worried about the safety and well-being of their loved ones there or contending with grief at the loss of friends or relations in the conflict.


To sign up for the group, please email Yaniv Phillips at py2120@cumc.columbia.edu with the subject line "Support Space for Students with Family or Friends in Israel."


Religious Life Advisers offer a variety of faith-based support, and can connect you with smaller groups that you may find common identity with for support.


Learn how you can support a friend.
Consider attending a Friend2Friend Training (Morningside/Manhattanville students) or schedule a Well-Being Strategy Session (CUIMC students).


Make meaningful connections within the community.
Get to know people outside of your usual circles from a place of curiosity and openness. Ask questions and really listen. Consider attending one of these community events.


Explore these resources for combating bias and promoting social justice. Staying curious and open to new information is an important way to challenge your own bias and in turn support others.
Take care,


Joseph Defraine Greenwell, Ed.D. (he/him/his)


Senior Vice President for Student Affairs
University Life