Oct 26 – Grinage, Sarah Gillman – Responding to reports of doxxing


Dear Barnard Community,


Billboard trucks parked with the names and photos of students from Barnard and Columbia have been double parked or driving on streets adjacent to our campus. We understand that this is part of a doxxing campaign that is also underway at several college and university campuses. Doxxing is the act of maliciously revealing private and personally identifiable information about a person without their consent in order to harass, shame, or embarrass.
 


Barnard is committed to providing a safe and inclusive environment for all community members and especially our students. Doxxing is an unacceptable practice that threatens the safety of our community.


Barnard is working with the NYPD to report concerns about the presence and content of the trucks near our campus. Barnard does not have jurisdiction over municipal parking spots, the sidewalk, or roadways. The NYPD also cannot require vehicles to leave public streets. However, the NYPD can require trucks to leave if they are double parked and/or obstructing pedestrian crossings. When we see illegally parked trucks, Barnard is taking swift action to contact the NYPD. We also urge other people seeing illegally parked trucks to call 311.


The NYPD has also informed us that any person displayed on a truck in the vicinity of campus can make a complaint to report harassment. The person should have photo documentation if possible. The complaint must be filed by the person whose photo is displayed. Any student or community member should call Barnard's CARES Community Safety (212-854-6666 or 4-6666 from a campus phone) and CARES will help to file the report with the NYPD.  


In addition to the doxxing by the trucks, we have received reports of doxxing through shared spreadsheets and unaffiliated websites. We understand that these groups may be using Barnard or Columbia directory information. Any student who wishes to have their information removed from our directories may do so by completing this directory update form or by emailing registrar@barnard.edu if there are any challenges in completing the form. Faculty and staff who wish to have their contact information removed should contact the Office of the Provost (faculty) or Human Resources (staff).


Barnard will continue to monitor and take action on reports of doxxing, and we will work with the authorities where appropriate.  


Leslie Grinage


Vice President for Campus Life and Student Experience and Dean of the College


Sarah Gillman


Senior Vice President for Strategic Finance & Operations