Oct 31 – Gillian Lester (law) – Shared Humanity in Times of Conflict and Division

Dear members of the Columbia Law School community,

No matter one’s perspective on the long history of Israeli-Palestinian conflict, the massacre committed by Hamas on October 7th—the deadliest day in Israel’s history—must be condemned for what it was: a horrific act of terrorism. The actions of Hamas were appalling in the wantonness of their cruelty. Vulnerable civilians—including babies and young children, parents and grandparents—were kidnapped and murdered in unimaginably brutal ways. 

In the weeks since, Israel has declared its intent to destroy Hamas in what looks to be a long and bloody conflict. The Gaza Health Ministry reports a Palestinian death toll exceeding 8,000, including a heart-wrenching 3,000 children, and more than one million displaced. A massive humanitarian crisis now grips Gaza, with widespread damage to critical infrastructure, severe restrictions on basic necessities like water, food, and fuel, and catastrophic impacts on its healthcare system.

Even as I grieve, it is impossible to ignore the profound effect this war has had on our campus and within the walls of our Law School.

Jewish community members have spoken to me of their feelings of isolation and abandonment; astonishment that at the height of their grievous shock and loss, their suffering remained unacknowledged by many they considered allies; that they mourn the loss of Palestinian lives and yet feel Hamas’s attack on Israel has not adequately been condemned. They have told me that they have been unable fully to mourn lost friends or family as, amidst words of comfort, they have also experienced actions or heard words ranging from insensitive and ill-timed, to antisemitic and hateful.

Muslim, Arab, and other community members have spoken to me of their feelings that the experiences of Palestinians have been minimized or erased; that by expressing concern for Palestinians they risk being falsely labeled as supporting Hamas and terrorism; that they fear the pernicious practice of doxxing—the anonymous disclosure of their names and personal information for the purpose of inciting harassment; that amidst words of comfort, they have also experienced actions or heard words that range from biased and stereotyping, to dehumanizing and Islamophobic.

In times of conflict and division, our tether must be our shared humanity. An enduring value of Columbia Law School, one we must faithfully maintain and instantiate, is an ethos of listening to and seeking to understand one another. When feelings are raw, some of us will say things that reflect pain and anger. There is a place for this. Expressions of strong emotion, and of political views, may be appropriate, even when they are offensive to others. The vigorous safeguarding of lawful free speech is foundational to the mission of a great university.

Although permissible protected speech is extremely broad, standing for free speech does not mean we must endorse or condone all views lawfully expressed. As a community we need to heal. I ask each of you to consider with care how you speak out. Candor can be cathartic; it can also be achieved with respect for the humanity of others.

As a great academic institution, Columbia Law School can—and must—lead. We can learn from this moment of turmoil and model how to confront hard issues with honesty, civility, and collegiality. Our mission depends on our ability to foster an environment in which we can freely learn, live, work, and express ourselves. And cultivating such an environment is a responsibility that we must assume together.

To help advance and reinforce this responsibility, I plan immediately to convene a working group to, among other things, examine the Law School’s rules and policies that apply to conduct, community standards, and how to realize our commitments to good-faith intellectual debate and community cohesion, even in the face of deep disagreement and diversity of experience. This working group will include faculty, students, and administrators, and will work to produce and share recommendations by early spring.

To safeguard our community, the Law School will continue to limit access to its buildings; non-affiliates and students from other divisions of the University not registered for Law School classes will not be permitted to enter without pre-approval. We will also continue to arrange for additional security at Law School events where warranted.

There is no place for hate at Columbia Law School. We must stand together against bigotry wherever it exists, including holding accountable the individual who used a hateful antisemitic epithet toward a Jewish member of our community last week. A disciplinary process is now underway. Antisemitism, Islamophobia, and racism are deeply antithetical to our values and when they occur, we will use all avenues available to ensure appropriate consequences.

The Law School is participating in University-wide advisory groups to address antisemitism and doxxing. We will continue to do everything possible to protect against outside actors who seek to harass members of our community, including those responsible for the doxxing trucks that have appeared near our campus. Anyone who witnesses bias, harassment, or discrimination should file a report so that it can be properly investigated. For emergencies, or to report being doxxed, contact Public Safety.

This crisis has brought to the surface a range of feelings, from personal loss, to existential grief, to fear. We must support mental and emotional wellness among members of our community. For students, in addition to the dedicated Law School counseling hours and resources, Counseling and Psychological Services has created facilitated, confidential support spaces for students affected by the conflict in Israel, Gaza, and the surrounding region. For faculty and staff, the Employee Assistance Program provides a range of mental health services. And, as always, the Mindfulness Program continues to be an indispensable resource, with programming offered multiple times per week.

I look forward to your thoughtful participation and partnership, and to working together to advance the values and aspirations we share as members of the Columbia Law School community.

Sincerely,
Gillian Lester
Dean and Lucy G. Moses Professor of Law
