Oct 10 – Costis Maglaras (business) – Support and Resources Following Attacks on Israel

Dear CBS Community,
I write today to underline President Shafik's recent message to the full University community, sharing our devastation at the horrific terror attack on Israel. I know that many in our global Business School community are experiencing grief, anger, loss, and fear. Our community's support and sympathy are with all those most directly affected. 
This past weekend, our Office of Student Affairs, EMBA, and MS/PhD offices reached out directly to many students, working with student groups and across the School to ensure that our community members have the support they need. This is a central commitment for CBS. 
In addition to the resources listed in President Shafik's message, I also remind you of the following resources for students, faculty, and staff:
For All Community Members:
Those who are concerned about safety and harassment can learn more and report an incident of bias at Columbia here. 
Public Safety escort and transportation options at Columbia University are available (also via the Public Safety App, Lion Safe) by calling 212-854-5555.  
Community members may find support with interpersonal conflict by contacting the Ombuds Office. 
For Students: 
The MBA Office of Student Affairs has launched a new Community Response Grant, available only to student organizations, which provides funding to respond to real-time world happenings that deeply impact our community. 
For Faculty/Staff:
CBS Human Resources is always here to support all staff, and, if you are a manager, to help you support your team. 
In addition, on Wednesday, October 11, from 4:00-5:00 PM in Geffen 330, Professors Shai Davidai and Oded Netzer will hold a discussion for those directly impacted by these events. All community members may also attend Assessing Israel's Next Moves, a webinar SIPA will hold on October 10 at 4:00 PM. 
I recognize that profound difficulties are ahead of us as well as behind, and I am grateful for the strength of our connections to one another. I wish all of our community safety in the days to come. 

Sincerely,
Costis Maglaras
Dean and David and Lyn Silfen Professor of Business
Columbia Business School

