Oct 11 – Mitchell – Ensuring Safety and Free Expression on our Campus


Dear fellow members of the Columbia community,
 
At this challenging time, when so many in our community are affected deeply by global events, I write to remind everyone that freedom of expression is a core University value, and it is our collective responsibility to uphold the principles of civic debate and discourse. Our priority is ensuring a safe community and workplace in which we can learn, live, work and, importantly, express ourselves. All of us have a role to play in maintaining this safety and a sense of community.
 
While Public Safety’s function is to maintain campus security, we are all guided by the University’s Rules of Conduct to cultivate a safe and respectful academic environment where we can openly exchange ideas across a full spectrum of viewpoints. For those who choose to engage in demonstrations or protests, I am sharing the Rules of University Conduct to assist in planning, including a quick guide here. 
 
We know from experience that during times of conflict, debate can turn into hateful rhetoric and even harassment. We have also learned over the years about the value of community and respectful human interactions to our individual and collective wellness, and that we have capacity for resilience in difficult times. I am grateful for our shared commitment to care for each other and to treat one another with civility and respect. 
 
Sincerely,
Dennis 


Oct 12 – Mitchell – Safety and Concern


Dear fellow members of the Columbia community, 


We are anticipating simultaneous protests by two groups this afternoon – Students for Justice in Palestine and Students Supporting Israel. Substantial efforts were made to enlist the participation of outside supporters in a manner that risks creating an unsafe environment for our community. This is why we have limited our access today to CUID holders only. 


Our University has always stood as a beacon of free expression and open dialogue, promoting a diverse and inclusive community where ideas and opinions can be freely exchanged. Freedom of speech is a fundamental value we hold dear, one that fosters intellectual growth, critical thinking, and the exploration of different perspectives. 


 


However, it is crucial to emphasize that with this freedom comes the responsibility to ensure that our campus remains a safe. Hate speech, discrimination, or violation of our core values will not be tolerated. This includes the use of signs and symbols that glorify hate and atrocities. Our rules prohibit the use of words that incite behavior that may lead to a clear and present danger of injury to people or property. All community members must abide by the requests of delegates, including to provide identification.  Anyone unwilling to identify themselves will be required to leave campus.  All violations are subject to discipline under our rules.


 


We value the diversity of thought that enriches our institution and strengthens our commitment to excellence. It is through civil discourse, empathy, and mutual understanding that we can address the complex challenges of our time and strive for a better future.  


 


Sincerely,


Dennis