Oct 9 – Shafik – Message of Concern for Our Community


Dear fellow members of the Columbia community:


I was devastated by the horrific attack on Israel this weekend and the ensuing violence that is affecting so many people. Unfortunately, at this moment, little is certain except that the fighting and human suffering are not likely to end soon.


I know many members of our community are being impacted in profound ways and I want to assure each of you that Columbia will provide any measure of care or comfort that we can. This is your community, and you are not alone.


Since Saturday, our first priority has been to make sure everyone connected to Columbia is safe and to provide logistical support and other types of resources for students, staff, and faculty who are directly affected by the conflict. We are in close touch with students, staff, alumni, and faculty throughout the region. I have included a list of university resources below.


I am gratified by and grateful for the skill, agility, and care that I have witnessed by professionals across Columbia. Colleagues in our community have shown great sensitivity and leadership, including staff at the Kraft Center for Jewish Student Life, our leaders in the Earl Hall Center for Religious Life, and the various student support teams across our schools.


Many of you have reacted to these terrifying events by pulling closer your friends, classmates, and relatives whose sense of security was shattered. These acts of kindness and empathy represent the best of Columbia and exemplify what we as a community can contribute to this moment. I encourage you to continue gathering, supporting each other, and listening to one another in the days ahead.


As a global university, we are devoted to examining and debating difficult issues that affect our world. Our job is to educate, enlighten, and engage. We must reject forces that seek to pull us apart and model behavior that shows respect for all. I welcome events like the SIPA webinar scheduled for tomorrow, examining the evolving situation in Israel and Gaza. I strongly encourage Columbia faculty to find ways of bringing clarity and context to this painful moment, just as you contribute your expertise and scholarship to other great challenges of our time.


I am committed to ensuring that these values are reflected in our teaching, our research, and our community support.


Sincerely,
Minouche Shafik
President, Columbia University


________________


Dear fellow members of the Columbia community,


Many of our students, faculty, staff, and colleagues are suffering great distress over the terror attacks on Israel and the humanitarian crisis in Gaza. Let me first say that there are no words to describe the fear and anxiety people experience when lives are at risk. To those who are struggling, you are never far from my thoughts, and Columbia will do everything possible to support you.


As we grapple with these challenging circumstances, it is important to clarify and reaffirm several guiding principles for how Columbia can stay true to its mission while upholding important values in our interactions with one another.


During any crisis in the world, our priority is providing immediate support to Columbia community members whose lives have been directly affected. Our day-to-day duty of care for the security and well-being of our students, faculty, and staff is paramount. Some students may need special accommodations as they cope with fear and grief, and those arrangements can be made through advisors or deans of students.


We know that the atmosphere on campus is extremely charged, and some of you have expressed concern about your personal security. Let me reassure you that the University will take all available steps to help you. We have increased public safety presence across all of our campuses. We are also working with outside security firms for additional support and are in regular contact with the New York City Police Department. We have added resources to our existing hotline and escort service and I encourage anyone who is concerned about their safety to use it.


Debate, advocacy, and protest are essential ways for students to address and process political and social turmoil, and we are duty-bound to ensure they can gather and express themselves. We will continue to observe all necessary safeguards around these activities and will work closely with students to ensure that they adhere to our event guidelines.


Unfortunately, some are using this moment to spread antisemitism, Islamophobia, bigotry against Palestinians and Israelis, and various other forms of hate. I have been disheartened that some of this abhorrent rhetoric is coming from members of our community, including members of our faculty and staff. Especially at a time of pain and anger, we must avoid language that vilifies, threatens, or stereotypes entire groups of people. It is antithetical to Columbia’s values and can lead to acts of harassment or violence. When this type of speech is unlawful or violates University rules, it will not be tolerated.


Some students, including at Columbia, have been victims of doxing. This form of online harassment, involving the public posting of names and personal information, has been used by extremists to target communities and individuals. This kind of behavior also will not be tolerated and should be reported through appropriate school channels. When applicable, we will refer these cases to external authorities.


Universities play a vital role in society by fostering critical thinking, scholarship, and, ideally, opening minds to different points of view. But for universities to be effective, we must use our voices differently than other institutions. Unlike a political organization or advocacy group, Columbia’s role is to create space for our scholars and students to fill with their own moral and intellectual conversations, an essential function in a world in which that space is narrowing.


That doesn’t mean we don’t have values. A shared commitment to civility, respect, and empathy must guide how we interact with one another. It is not what we believe, but how we treat people who don’t share our views, that shapes the character of our community and ultimately educates and empowers new generations of engaged citizens. Our focus must be de-escalating tensions, modeling respectful behavior, and finding common ground in our shared humanity.


On a personal note, I want to thank all those who have shown great compassion, leadership, and kindness in recent days. Whether this has been providing spiritual or emotional care for students, supporting friends and colleagues in distress, taking part in thoughtful classroom discussions or seminars—you are exemplars of the best of Columbia.


Sincerely,
Minouche Shafik
President, Columbia University in the City of New York


Oct 27 – Shafik – Standing in Solidarity


Dear fellow members of the Columbia community:


I have been shocked to hear of several antisemitic incidents in just the last couple of days.


The perpetrators of these incidents are not only attacking members of our community, they are attacking the values it is built on—respect for our shared humanity. I want to reiterate that antisemitism, like any form of bigotry, is an assault on everything we stand for at Columbia. Palestinian, Muslim, or Arab students have also been subjected to harassment and targeted by doxing, a dangerous form of intimidation. We take these incidents seriously and they are being investigated.


When hate speech or incidents violate University rules, it will not be tolerated and will be referred for disciplinary action in accordance with our policies. These disciplinary actions are already underway and we will continue to use every available tool to keep our community safe.


Just as we defend the right to free speech, we are duty-bound to be vigilant when we see discourse devolve into hate speech which can be a prelude to harassment or violence. No political debate or division can justify antisemitism or any form of bigotry based on the religious, racial, national, or ethnic identity of anyone.


I am appealing to everyone to hold each other closer during these distressing times. I know that these hateful acts come from a small minority of the Columbia community. Each of us has a role to play in standing in solidarity against hate that targets any member of our community and to call it out whenever we see it.


In these difficult days each of us can renew our resolve to be a community that rejects all forms of bigotry and respects the fundamental dignity and human rights of all our members.


Sincerely,
Minouche Shafik
President, Columbia University in the City of New York