Oct 9 – Sorett – On the conflict in Israel and Gaza




Dear Columbia College Students, 




The events in Israel and Gaza over the past several days have shocked the world and impacted many of our students and community members in profound ways. We are all deeply saddened by the horrific acts of violence and loss of life. I write now to extend my sympathy to those touched personally by these tragic events, and to express my sorrow at this ongoing conflict.




I also want to ensure that you are aware of resources available to you. A number of offices across the University are working to provide support to students — including those currently in the region, studying abroad, or who may be called into service — and we are committed to providing ongoing support in the weeks ahead. I encourage you to seek support as you need it. Anyone whose academic work has been impacted should reach out to their instructors and advising deans as soon as possible. Links to a variety of resources can be found below.




There will be difficult days and weeks ahead for too many members of our community – with accompanying feelings of sadness, anger, and frustration sure to follow. I encourage each of you to be attentive to these dynamics and treat each other with care and respect as the situation continues to unfold. We are here to support you however possible during this challenging time.




With respect,




Josef Sorett
Dean of Columbia College
Vice President for Undergraduate Education








Nov 8 – Sorett – Where we stand as a community








Dear Columbia College students, 
I am writing as we return from Fall break to share some thoughts on where we stand as a community in this moment, as well as to provide you with updates on our ongoing response to how the crisis in the Middle East has impacted our campus.
In my recent message to Columbia College alumni, I reminded them that at the heart of what we do is a simple — yet fundamentally radical — proposition. We invite you to our campus from all around the globe, representing every conceivable kind of difference, and require you to live and learn together. It is within this framework that our commitment to respectful discourse and intellectual freedom can achieve its greatest success, with the idea being that each of you learns as much from your peers as from your professors.




At the start of each class I teach, I remind students that there really is no such thing as “safe space” when you think out loud with others. I don’t make this statement glibly — especially in a moment where many feel physically unsafe. The truth is that expressing one’s viewpoint always entails risk, and often creates tension — but that is the point. Doing so within the bounds of a commitment to respect is how we grow, build empathy and find our voice. As many are finding it more difficult to share space with those who don’t share their experience or perspective, this kind of education has never been more important.




For many of us the current conflict is deeply personal, particularly for those in our community who have family and close friends in Israel and Gaza. Here on campus,  disturbing incidents of discrimination, and intimidation through doxxing, have brought fear and pain to students and their families. Many are also turning to scholarship and constructive dialogue to better understand the larger history of this conflict, as well as to grasp its significance in relation to crises elsewhere around the globe. Some see their own struggles reflected in the present moment, while others are finding ways to support their peers. All the while, many of you are finding strength in community even as you attempt to continue with the regular routines of the academic calendar.




Forging a shared language with which to move forward in addressing these challenging issues has proven a formidable task. To do so, we must grapple with the following questions:
* What is considered civil debate and discourse?
* What are the rules of engagement in discourse, and what are the consequences for those who violate those rules?
* Where is the line between advocacy and provocation?  
* When does free speech become hate speech?
* To ensure that we begin this work on a solid foundation, I want to make it absolutely clear that we do not tolerate Islamophobia, anti-Semitism, identity-based harassment, hate speech or violence of any form in our community. Individuals and groups who violate University rules are being held accountable.




None of these perennial questions lend themselves to easy answers; and all the more so in moments when emotions are raw. Even still, we must listen to one another, strive for empathy, and continually reflect on both the intent and consequences of our speech and actions. In the days and weeks ahead you will hear more about programs – both formal and informal – that the College is developing to support these efforts. But, it is important to note that your voices, respect, and engagement will be critical in these spaces.




I want to thank those of you who have already written to me with questions and recommendations. My commitment to you is that I will remain directly involved in this process. Whether convening student leaders, or catching up with you in the dining halls and around campus, you will be seeing more of me and I look forward to engaging in conversation.




As we move forward in this moment, protecting the safety and well-being of our community will continue to be our foremost priority — especially for those of you who have, in varying ways, been directly impacted by the current conflict. With this in mind:
The College has established a Campus Climate Response Team that meets daily, responding to student concerns in real time. If you are experiencing challenges because of the campus climate, please email cc-seas@columbia.edu and a staff member will respond within one business day.




Academic advisors are assisting students who are directly impacted and who require academic accommodations. I encourage you to reach out to your advisor if recent events have disrupted your academic pursuits.




I will be gathering a diverse group of student leaders who will partner with me in determining how best to move the community forward in this moment and beyond as we develop language and tools adequate for the work ahead.




With regards to doxxing, College staff are providing one-on-one support for targeted students and families, while the University has provided a library of online resources. If you are a victim of doxxing, please reach out to the Campus Climate Response Team.




A holistic array of University resources are available to the community, including academic, administrative, mental health and spiritual support.




These are just the first in a series of steps to address the near-term impact on our community. Others will follow as we continue to reflect on how best to support you in the weeks ahead. I thank you for all that you continue to do to support one another and bring the College’s values and mission to life every day.




With respect,




Josef Sorett
Dean of Columbia College
Vice President for Undergraduate Education
Professor of Religion and African American & African Diaspora Studies 


Oct 30 – Sorett – Reflecting on Our Mission ** to alumni


Dear Columbia College alumni,


I reach out to you amid challenging days for the Columbia University community, to provide some reflections on behalf of the College. And I want to begin by thanking those of you who have already taken the time to write to me directly, both with expressions of concern and words of encouragement.


The horrific acts of terrorism and violence perpetrated by Hamas on October 7 that took the lives of Israeli civilians, including children, shocked the conscience. This tragedy is now compounded by Israel’s war with Hamas, the profound humanitarian crisis in Gaza, with Israelis still being held hostage, and the volume of Palestinian lives lost rising each day. Words fall short of capturing what we have witnessed this past month, as all disregard for innocent human life is an affront to our deepest values as an institution — and as individuals. The toll of this deathly conflict has hit members of our community especially hard, and forging a shared language with which to move forward has proven a formidable task.


Many of you have shared distress at stories about Columbia in the press and across social media, which portray a very specific view of life on campus over these past weeks. As President Shafik stated in a note to the community on Friday evening, I want to make it absolutely clear that we do not tolerate anti-Semitism, Islamophobia, discriminatory harassment, hate speech or violence of any form in our community. I assure you that we are taking appropriate action when these issues arise. Individuals who violate University rules are being held accountable.


These voices do not speak on behalf of, or accurately represent, our broader community. While, to be sure, there have been incidents of disturbing and unacceptable behavior, the majority of our students are attempting to continue with the regular routines of the academic calendar. Last week, in the middle of midterms, I participated in several illuminating and informal conversations, including a casual meal in the dorms with a group of students, a dialogue with Arab and Muslim student leaders in Hamilton Hall, and a visit to the Kraft Center, where I joined a table of Jewish students for their weekly Shabbat dinner.


Each of these groups raised questions and offered pointed criticisms. They candidly relayed to me how the events of the past few weeks have disrupted their lives. They expressed their respective concerns about Columbia, as well as their hopes for a better future. Yet they also focused on the typical demands of coursework and co-curricular activities, and are going about their college lives, finding strength in community. Moreover, they are putting our values to practice by advocating for and supporting one another when instances of hate speech and doxxing — on campus and online — have occurred.


In times of crisis, it bears repeating that Columbia College stands resolutely as a community committed to open dialogue and intellectual freedom, respectfully affirming cultural, political and religious diversity. As I’ve said several times in recent days, at the heart of what we do is a simple — yet fundamentally radical — proposition. We invite students to our campus from all around the globe, representing every conceivable kind of difference, and require them to live and learn together.


Many in our community, students included, are seeking to better understand the larger history of this conflict, as well as to grasp its significance in relation to crises elsewhere around the globe. We cannot shield our students from the world, nor would it be to their benefit, and no analytical framework makes the loss of human life easy to comprehend. But we work tirelessly to safeguard their personal safety and emotional well-being. As stewards of their education, we must also continue to provide them with the spaces, tools and guidance to understand and interrogate the world as it is. As an academic community, we engage with difference through dialogue and debate.


I say to my students at the start of each new class: there really is no such thing as “safe space” when you think out loud with others. Expressing one’s viewpoint always entails risk, and often creates tension — but that is the point. Doing so within the bounds of a commitment to respect is how we grow, build empathy and find our voice. As many are finding it more difficult to share space with those who don’t share their experience or perspective, this kind of education has never been more important.


As we move forward in this moment, protecting the safety and well-being of our community will continue to guide our actions — especially for those students, faculty, families and staff who have, in varying ways, been directly impacted by the current conflict. With this in mind:


* The College has established a Campus Climate Response Team that meets daily, responding to student concerns in real time.
* Academic advisors are assisting students who are directly impacted and who require academic accommodations.
* A holistic array of University resources are available to the community, including academic, administrative, mental health and spiritual support.
* With regards to doxxing, College staff are providing one-on-one support for targeted students and families, while the university has provided a library of online resources.
* I am organizing a series of dialogues on campus with students, faculty and staff, as well as engaging alumni leaders, who have an especially important role to play as we develop language and tools adequate for the work ahead.


These are just the first in a series of steps to address the near-term impact on our community. Others will follow as we continue to reflect on how best to integrate these efforts into the long-term work of Columbia College. My thanks, again, to those of you who have reached out to share your voice and offer support. Thank you for everything you do for our students and to sustain the mission of Columbia College as we look toward our shared future.


With respect,


Josef Sorett
Dean of Columbia College
Vice President for Undergraduate Education
Professor of Religion and African American & African Diaspora Studies