Oct 9 – Keren Yarhi-Milo (SIPA) – Regarding the war between Israel and Hamas




Dear SIPA Students,


This weekend, a new war erupted between Israel and Hamas following horrific terror attacks launched by Hamas against Israeli towns, resulting in hundreds of fatalities as well as civilian hostages taken into Gaza. Israel’s military response is likely to be a sustained campaign, already leading to hundreds of Palestinian casualties, and I expect the situation to escalate.


Like many of you, I am deeply distressed by these events unfolding in my home country and region. I’m concerned about the situation on the ground and its impact around the world, including in our community. Here at SIPA, we are home to a diverse student body, including Israelis and Palestinians, as well as students from all over the world. My heart goes out to everyone affected.


At moments like these, it is our responsibility as a policy school to lead with clear and informed content and analysis, to provide opportunities for discussion, and to model how to think and act during emotional and fast-moving times. I invite you to join us for a webinar this Tuesday on the current situation, where I will be moderating a conversation with Secretary Hillary Rodham Clinton, Professor Stephen Biddle, author/journalists Nadav Eyal and Kim Ghattas, an IGP Fellow, and former US National Security Advisor and IGP Fellow Robert O’Brien.


At SIPA, we are grateful that our thinking and analysis can be enriched by these scholars and many more in our community who have led through challenging geopolitical crises and are sharing their perspectives in class, in public and private commentary, and in other ways.


It’s also important to acknowledge that in our diverse community people are experiencing these events differently, and I strongly encourage sensitivity and compassion. Our school and the university are here to support you. We have already been in touch with students from the impacted region and student groups to share resources, and I want to share these more broadly to ensure anyone who needs them can find support.


University Counseling and Psychological Services


Morningside / Manhattanville Campuses: (212) 854-2878
CUIMC Campus: (212) 305-3400
Students currently abroad may call International SOS and ask to speak to an Enhanced Emotional Support Counselor at (215) 942-8478.
University Health Services


Morningside / Manhattanville Campuses: Columbia Health
CUIMC Campus: Student Health on Haven
Thank you everyone for your support, and the support you provide to our fellow members of the SIPA community.


Keren Signature


Keren Yarhi-Milo
Dean, School of International and Public Affairs (SIPA)
Adlai E. Stevenson Professor of International Relations
Columbia University
New York, NY


Oct 17 – Keren Yarhi-Milo (SIPA) – A message from the Dean


Dear SIPA Students, 
Across our SIPA community, we have students, faculty and staff who have been personally affected by the terrorist attack by Hamas and Israel’s military response to it in Gaza. Many in our community are hurting and anxious, as the near future in the region appears dire and devastating, and it weighs on all of us heavily. 
During this distressing time, I have experienced and witnessed tremendous acts of kindness, empathy, and support from all corners of our SIPA community. Our student organizations have hosted wellness programs, educational forums, and found ways to reach out to each other to offer meaningful comfort, friendship, and information. 
While we are finding many ways to come together and offer support, I have also met with and heard from members of our community who have expressed genuine concerns for their safety and the safety of others on campus, in group chats, in the classroom, and on social media because of their identities and beliefs. At Columbia, we take these concerns seriously, especially when students feel unsafe or targeted. If you witness or experience this type of behavior, it is critically important to report it (guidance below). I want to make it unequivocally clear: any act of harassment, intimidation, violence, and threats will not be tolerated in our school. 
As your dean, I personally ask you to honor what we have committed to one another in all of our meetings and gatherings that even on issues that deeply divide us, we have to lead with empathy and compassion; we can disagree with one another, even fundamentally, but we should do it in a civil and respectful manner; and we should treat each other with humanity even as you advocate for a position. You are the future leaders of this world, and with this comes a responsibility to model to others how to conduct oneself in difficult times and complicated situations like this when emotions are raw. 
SIPA will continue to organize events, forums for conversation and analysis, and webinars about the developing situation, and I will continue to hold meetings with students and student organizations to hear perspectives and see how I can be of help. 
To report incidents of concern, bias, harassment, or discrimination, please go to the University’s General Concern Reporting form. By completing this form, the appropriate University Officials can review, respond, and offer support resources. For information about the University’s bias reporting process, please go here. 
If there is ever immediate risk to health or safety, please contact Columbia Public Safety at 212-854-5555 (Morningside), 212-853-3333 (Manhattanville), or 212-305-7979 (CUIMC). 
I wish to remind everyone of the University’s expectations for student conduct. Below are key policies that everyone needs to comply with to support the wellbeing of our community. 
* IAB Bulletin Board Policy 
* Rules of University Conduct
* Polices on Student Conduct and Engagement 
* SIPA Code of Academic and Professional Conduct 
* SIPA social media policy for student organizations (found in the OSA Student Organization handbook) 
* Student Policies and Procedures on Discrimination and Harassment 
As we enter the midpoint in the fall semester, I know this can be an academically demanding time. If you need assistance with your academics, please speak with your instructors and your advising dean. 
While I cannot predict how long we will be in this challenging time, I am confident that we will continue to respect and care for one another with compassion and leadership. 
Sincerely, 
Keren Yarhi-Milo
Dean, School of International and Public Affairs (SIPA)
Adlai E. Stevenson Professor of International Relations
Columbia University
New York, NY
Oct 27 – Keren Yarhi-Milo (SIPA) – Concerns about doxing and hate speech on campus


Dear SIPA Students,
It has been three weeks since the October 7 terrorist attacks. This is a human tragedy that has deeply affected so many on our campus. We have seen over a thousand Israeli fatalities and more than 200 were kidnapped to Gaza including women, children, and disabled persons. Israel's subsequent military action in Gaza, targeted at eradicating the Hamas threat, has resulted in thousands of Palestinian civilian deaths. Like everyone in the SIPA community, we mourn the loss of all lives.
As I mentioned when the conflict erupted, at SIPA it is our responsibility to exemplify how to think and act during emotional and rapidly unfolding events. This includes showcasing compassion, sensitivity, and empathy for those who are suffering. It also requires engaging in civil discussions with those who perceive these events differently.
Today I write to share how deeply disturbed I am to see that students and faculty from the Columbia and Barnard communities — including some at SIPA — have recently been subjected to doxing campaigns. Doxing is a form of online harassment in which individuals’ names, addresses, and other identifying information are publicly exposed without their consent. This malicious activity, including the placement of trucks that circulate around our campus displaying pictures and names of our students, is aimed at intimidating our affiliates and sowing division within our community during a time already fraught with heavy emotion and political fervor. We unequivocally condemn such actions. See below for more information and guidance.
I am also appalled to see antisemitism and Islamophobic rhetoric manifest in SIPA’s hallways and on campus.
As a community of future leaders and the world’s most global public policy school, we need to recognize that the October 7 massacre was the largest single one-day killing of Jewish people since the Holocaust. It is simply unacceptable for some members of our community to justify, much less celebrate, the deliberate murder of innocent civilians —, and effectively call for Jews to be eliminated “from the river to the sea.” I have seen both signs and correspondence between students that are extremely hateful and very disturbing.
I am also alarmed by anti-Palestinian rhetoric heard on and off campus. Grouping all Palestinians with Hamas and using dehumanizing language toward Arabs and the people of Gaza is reprehensible.
Any affiliate who sees or is subject to violence, harassment, intimidation, or hate speech should report it; I assure you that the perpetrators will be disciplined.
For those who feel unsafe, please know we are doing everything we can to make sure our campus is safe and secure. We are in active and ongoing communication with University leadership and the Department of Public Safety; furthermore, know that Public Safety is liaising with the NYPD. It is important to understand that the University does not have jurisdiction over municipal parking spots, sidewalks, or roadways. While the NYPD cannot require vehicles to leave public streets, they can force trucks to move if they are double-parked or obstructing pedestrian crossings. If you come across illegally parked trucks, we strongly urge you to call 311.
Recent Doxing Activity on Campus
I want to share some guidance and immediate actions that the School is taking to support students and address these harmful activities and the pain they cause:
* Any Columbia University student who has been doxed should report it immediately to Columbia Public Safety.  You can also alert the University by filing a report.  When applicable, we have, and will continue to, refer these cases to external authorities. Columbia has additional doxing resources here.
* Dean Tsuya Yee of the Office of Student Affairs (OSA) has set up a daily information session for impacted students to share updates and resources.
* When requested, we are removing/have removed personal information from the CU directory, Campus Groups and other online domains belonging to SIPA/Columbia.
* The HRHP Concentration and OSA are organizing training on your legal rights and how to protect yourself from doxing.
* Dean Yee will be participating in a University working group focused on supporting impacted community members and doxing safety concerns.
* A newly published University webpage offers resources for the community during times of crisis. In addition, the University is assembling additional support and resources to assist members of our community who are victims of doxing and will share those as soon as possible.
To be clear, any Columbia affiliate found to be involved in doxing a fellow community member will face University disciplinary action. If you possess information related to this, I urge you to report it to OSA or Public Safety. Rest assured, it will be thoroughly investigated.
I wish to conclude by emphasizing the incredible resilience and solidarity SIPA students are displaying toward one another. I’m also cognizant of the proactive steps SIPASA is taking to support students, making community assistance a top priority. Over the past three weeks, I have met individually with campus groups, victims, and members of the SIPA community on both sides affected by the crisis. The dean of students has been meeting with them as well on a frequent basis. We have organized webinars to bring in fresh analytical and policy perspectives and to help our community make sense of this evolving crisis. And we will continue to host dialogues and discussions with students and listen to groups so that we can emerge from this crisis stronger and more united as a community.
If you require assistance from SIPA or have suggestions on how we can further aid our community members, please don’t hesitate to reach out to our leadership team, specifically Associate Dean for Student Affairs Tsuya Yee (ty2466@columbia.edu). I want to express my gratitude to everyone for their support, and for the solidarity shown to our fellow SIPA community members.
Thank you.
Keren Yarhi-Milo
Dean, School of International and Public Affairs
Adlai E. Stevenson Professor of International Relations
Columbia University
New York, NY
Columbia Resources
* Campus Resources in Times of Crisis
* Resources for combating Antisemitism
* Resources for combating Islamophobia
All SIPA students should take a moment to review what personal information about you exists online, including photos. The resources below provide information on how to protect your personal information.
Doxing Resources
* New York Times Digital Security Education Hub - A list of resources for doxing security training, as used by the New York Times. These resources can help prevent potential doxing by removing sensitive information from public access.
* Online Harassment Field Manual
* If you wish to remove your information from the Columbia University directory, here’s how to make a request. You can also ask that your information be restored later.
Oct 31 – Keren Yarhi-Milo (SIPA) – Announcing a SIPA Task Force on Doxing and Student Safety


Dear SIPA Community,
To reiterate what I wrote on Friday, I am deeply disturbed to see that SIPA students and faculty have been subjected to doxing campaigns. I unequivocally condemn such actions and I’m doing everything in my power to bring these activities to an end on our campus and online.
To that end, I have formed a SIPA Task Force on Doxing and Student Safety, effective immediately. Professor Michael Nutter, SIPA’s David N. Dinkins Professor of Professional Practice in Urban and Public Affairs and former mayor of Philadelphia, accepted my invitation to chair this task force and we are incredibly fortunate to have access to his deep expertise and experience in mounting effective responses to complex community issues. Addressing the current doxing campaign targeting our students requires collaboration with the University and other City partners.
The SIPA Task Force on Doxing and Student Safety will play a critical role in making recommendations to the university and local government to protect our students. Specifically, the Task Force will develop recommendations to prevent doxing, protect the identities and personal information of our students, and develop proposals to reduce tensions among various students and student organizations regarding controversial national or international events that affect our community in New York City.
The Task Force is composed of SIPA faculty, staff, and students to leverage these varied perspectives for the benefit of our entire community. I sincerely thank them for taking on this role and I look forward to working closely with them to drive progress on this issue.
Committee members:  
* Michael Nutter (Chair), David N. Dinkins Professor of Professional Practice in Urban and Public Affairs and former mayor of Philadelphia
* Alex Hertel-Fernandez, Vice Dean and Associate Professor of International and Public Affairs
* Kristele Younes, Lecturer in International and Public Affairs and Director of the Humanitarian Policy track of the Human Rights and Humanitarian Policy Concentration
* Alexsandra Sanford, Chief Operations Officer
* Tsuya Yee, Associate Dean for Student Affairs
* Jilliene Rodriguez, Associate Dean for Diversity and Community Engagement
* Three students (TBD)
This Task Force is just one step in bringing us together to face this pressing issue which has deeply impacted so many. We are committed to protecting and improving the climate at SIPA and stay tuned for more updates. I remain confident that we can emerge from this crisis stronger and more united as a community.
You can contact the Task Force directly by emailing: doxingtaskforce@sipa.columbia.edu. 
Thank you. 
Keren Yarhi-Milo
Dean, School of International and Public Affairs (SIPA)
Adlai E. Stevenson Professor of International Relations


Nov 9 – Keren Yarhi-Milo (SIPA) – Announcing a SIPA Anti-Hate Task Force




Dear SIPA Community, 
As we continue to actively address targeted issues of safety, intimidation and harassment through our Doxing and Student Safety Task Force, I see the need for a broader anti-hate initiative. I am thus creating an Anti-hate Task Force to focus on strategies to address antisemitism, Islamophobia, and the spread of any targeted hate, bigotry and harassment against any member of our community based on their real or perceived identity. 
The aim of this Task Force is threefold: first, to work to address and deter hate speech on campus; second, to foster an environment at SIPA where everyone feels safe, secure, and empowered to speak their mind without intimidation; and third, to strengthen the resilience of our SIPA community so we can respond to this and future global crises in ways that are inclusive, pro-active, and meaningful. 
I shared this idea with members of SIPASA Leadership and several students last week and they enthusiastically support this important initiative. All members of our community should feel a sense of inclusion and connection, not intimidation, when they come to study here, and to learn from, and contribute to our globally diverse community. 
The Task Force will be comprised of faculty, administrators, and students who can bring to bear a variety of skills, expertise, and experiences in advocacy, bias prevention and response, relevant institutional and international laws, policies and best practices on this work and support services. It will focus on educating the community about existing rules against threatening and harassing behavior, identifying, and closing gaps, and seeking to create a better environment for constructive dialogue. The Task Force will convene this week and will liaise with our Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, Climate & Engagement (DEICE) Committee. The group will also coordinate with relevant University partners and Task Forces.
It is critically important that every member of the community take an active role in building a safe and inclusive climate. If you are targeted because of your identities or beliefs, or witness someone else being targeted in this way, the School can be a resource to help you take action to report the incident, provide you with support services, and keep you informed during any investigation. You will soon hear directly from the Task Force about its plans and the composition of the team. 
Thank you for your support and collaboration in helping us take the next step towards being a safer and more respectful school community.
Sincerely, 
Keren Yarhi-Milo
Dean, School of International and Public Affairs
Adlai E. Stevenson Professor of International Relations
Columbia University New York, NY

5